---
layout: post
title: "This Is My Father's World"
categories: [Music]
image: /assets/images/nature.jpg
description: "The earth is the LORD’S, and the fulness thereof; the world, and they that dwell therein. KJV — Psalm 24:1"
author: alonzo
---

> The earth is the LORD’S, and the fulness thereof; the world, and they that dwell therein. KJV — Psalm 24:1

From what was originally a 16 verse poem<sup>\*</sup> written by Maltbie D. Babcock, Franklin L. Sheppard set the following verses to music in 1915; the verses now form the three stanzas of the awe-inspiring song, _"This Is My Father's World"_.

### Verse 1

> This is my Father's world, <br>
> and to my listening ears <br>
> all nature sings, and round me rings <br>
> the music of the spheres. <br>
> This is my Father's world: <br>
> I rest me in the thought <br>
> of rocks and trees, of skies and seas; <br>
> his hand the wonders wrought. <br>

_"In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth." Gen 1:1_. The psalmist affirms that _"The sea is his, and he made it: and his hands formed the dry land." Ps 95:5_. It is not a mere claim that God created. It is the truth. Nature and Revelation alike testify to this truth. It is in this vein that Job asks, _"Who knoweth not in all these that the hand of the LORD hath wrought this?" Job 12:9_. We should be doubtlessly sure that _"The earth is the LORD’S" Ps 24:1_. Now here is a point of great interest; this God who is the Creator and Owner of the world is our Father. Lo, what a glorious thought that brings! It is written, _"Beloved, now are we the sons of God" 1John 3:2, "And if children, then heirs; heirs of God, and joint-heirs with Christ;" Rom 8:17_. How then can we ever be in doubt and uncertainty and feel that we are orphans?

### Verse 2

> This is my Father's world, <br>
> the birds their carols raise, <br>
> the morning light, the lily white, <br>
> declare their maker's praise. <br>
> This is my Father's world: <br>
> he shines in all that's fair; <br>
> in the rustling grass I hear him pass; <br>
> he speaks to me everywhere. <br>

In _Rev 14:6,7_ is found a solemn command for all the inhabitants of the world to _"Fear God, and give glory to him; ...him that made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and the fountains of waters."_. One of the ways that we give glory to God is by praising Him. Says the psalmist, _"I will sing and give praise, even with my glory." Ps 108:1_. This is what we read in the stanza above. The birds, the morning light and the lily white declare their makers praise - our Father's glory. But what about us? If inanimate things: the sunshine and the rain, the hills and plains, the flowers upon the thistles and roses that cover the thorns do testify of God's love - His character and glory, what about us who are made after His likeness and image? This is our Father's world and for that reason, may we hear Christ say, _"Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven." Matt 5:16_.

### Verse 3

> This is my Father's world. <br>
> O let me ne'er forget <br>
> that though the wrong seems oft so strong, <br>
> God is the ruler yet. <br>
> This is my Father's world: <br>
> why should my heart be sad? <br>
> The Lord is King; let the heavens ring! <br>
> God reigns; let the earth be glad! <br>

Our Father knows how forgetful we can be. Read Isaiah 49:15. That is why in one of the 10 precepts given to man as a lamp and a light, He begins by saying, _"Remember" Exo 20:8_. Interestingly, this is the only commandment that directly points to God as the Maker and Owner of all things. The Sabbath commandment. Read Exodus 20:8-11. In saying _"O let me ne'er forget"_, we pray to God to constantly remind us that He is the creator and we are His children. As with all promises, this one is conditional on the dwelling of Christ in the heart by His Spirit. For _"The Spirit itself beareth witness with our spirit, that we are the children of God:" Rom 8:16_. When this is so, we will always be happy for God is the source of life, of wisdom, and of joy. Not even sin or difficulties or trials can stand. Our Father is the Creator and Redeemer. He is King and He reigns. If only we'd hear heaven echoing the note of praise in this song. **This Is My Father's World**.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/WRN8v95byww" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

<span class="post-date"><small class="post-date"> <a target="_blank" href="https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:This_is_My_Fathers_World_poem_(2).JPG"><sup>\*</sup> This is My Fathers World poem</a> </small></span>
